# Day 2

[Log Analysis] Santa's Naughty & Nice Log

This challenge started delving into minor Linux commands for discovery.

1. Ensure you are connected to the deployable machine in this task. (No answer needed)
2. Use the ls command to list the files present in the current directory. How many log files are present?
    You can just do a directory listing and manually count the files, or use ```wc``` to count them for you.
    ```ls | wc -l```
3. Elf McSkidy managed to capture the logs generated by the web server. What is the name of this log file?
    Look at the files in the directory, common sense will lead you to the correct file:
    ```ls```
4. Begin investigating the log file from question #3 to answer the following questions. (No answer needed)
5. On what day was Santa's naughty and nice list stolen?
    The format of the answer for this was unclear, but in looking at the hint they want the day of the week.  Look at the logfile, find the date, and convert it:
    ```less <logfile>```
    ```date -d <MM\DD\YYYY> +%A```
6. What is the IP address of the attacker?
    Look at the logfile and obtain the source IP address:
    ```less <logfile>```
7. What is the name of the important list that the attacker stole from Santa?
    Using some context clues, use ```grep``` to search through the file.  Knowing it's a list, I assumed it was a **txt** file.
    ```grep \.txt <logfile>```
8. Look through the log files for the flag. The format of the flag is: THM{}
    This question gives you the text to search for, but not the file.  You can use recursive grep to search through all of the files in the directory.  I decided to make the search case-insensitive, just in case the clue wasn't 100%:
    ```grep -Ri THM{} .```
9. Interested in log analysis? We recommend the [Windows Event Logs](https://tryhackme.com/room/windowseventlogs) room or the [Endpoint Security Monitoring Module](https://tryhackme.com/module/endpoint-security-monitoring). (No answer needed)
